(upbeat music)
Now we're gonna make a honeypot.
So, one of the unfortunate things about the internet
is that it's not so simple where you just have a form,
you fill out some fields,
we create our place order function,
and it sends off an email.
Because there are bad people in the world
and bad people create robots that will destroy us all.
And what happens with forms that are fill-outable
and submittable without any sort of bot detection,
is that they get submitted with
all kinds of scrupulous stuff from the internet.
So what we need to do is sort of put in some steps
that will at least deter bots
that are just spamming thousands of forms
every single second from submitting that form.
And we actually did a whole,
if you go to syntax.fm, we did a whole podcast on it.
It was called Forms, Captcha.
Here we go.
Hasty Treat - Forms, Captchas, Honeypots,
Dealing With Malicious Users
and the Sad State of Contact Forms.
So listen to that.
If you want to sort of a look into, to all of them.
The best way to do it is to put a Captcha on it,
where you have that little, I am not a robot,
or you have to type in those letters
that don't make any sense,
or fill out forms and things like that.
But I asked on Twitter,
what do you do if you don't want to put a Captcha in it?
And a lot of people said, just put a honeypot in there.
And that works for almost all of my use cases.
So a honeypot is a field in your contact form
that the user is not supposed to fill out.
And if a bot fills that out,
then you know it's a bot,
because regular people would not have filled that out.
So what we're going to do is
we're going to go over to our order form or our order page.
And we'll look for where we have the email form.
Here we go. And let's just duplicate the label.
Actually, yeah. No, don't even need the label.
Just the input.
And we will change that to, don't call it honey,
because the bots are smart enough not to look for honey.
So being the Canadian I am, we'll call it mapleSyrup,
S-Y-R-U-P.
And then we'll have to go up
to where we created the useForm hook
and also create a mapleSyrup value.
And here we go. So that is our new one.
Then what we'll need to do
is when the person submits the form,
so that is in usePizza,
we will have to add mapleSyrup here,
and that will send the value of this input box
to our server.
And then we'll go to our placeOrder dot (indistinct)
which is our server side.
And we will check if they have submitted
the mapleSyrup field.
So we'll go right here.
Let's go.
First thing we'll check
if they have filled out the honeypot.
So let's say if body.mapleSyrup,
so if it exists,
then we return statusCode 400
and body JSON.stringify - oh, it's capital JSON.
And the message is Boop beep bop zzzzttt good bye.
Okay. That's good.
Another thing I like to do here
is you just put like an error,
like you put like a number in here.
So if somebody, for whatever reason,
somebody fills that out and they're like,
Hey I'm getting an error
three four two three four on your website,
you know exactly,
oh they hit the honeypot
and there's something wrong with your honeypot.
If a regular user has actually filled that out.
Okay, now let's try to submit it.
So we'll go ahead and fill it out
and we'll fill out our honeypot with just something.
That's what a bot would do.
And then we go ahead and click on Order.
Oh, I forgot to submit it. There we go.
Error. Boop beep bop zzzzttt good bye.
Okay. So that is our honeypot.
Now what we need to do is you need to hide this input.
But we can't just use the hidden attribute on the input
because the bot will be smart enough to figure out
that that is a hidden input
and shouldn't be actually visible.
So what we'll do is we'll go to our styles for our order,
which is orderStyles.
We'll open up that.
And here I'll just say, did we give that one a class?
I think we need to give that one a class.
Let's say, class mapleSyrup, className of mapleSyrup.
I'll go in here.
And we'll just say anything with the class of mapleSyrup
just display none on it.
Now I thought like, okay,
wouldn't a bot be smart enough not to just like,
be able to figure out if it's visible via CSS or not?
And apparently the answer to that is no.
This is coming from dozens of people who use this
in production and client websites.
So that's good enough.
Other ways you could hide it
is you could scale it to zero,
or like scale to one pixel,
or use z-index, or use text indent.
There's all kinds of tricks to hide things on the internet.
But you also have to make sure that you're not throwing off
screen reader users because some CSS attributes
will still read themselves aloud to screen reader users.
But if it is display none,
the screen reader will skip over that.
So there's one robot you need to appreciate.
And one robot you need to make sure that they're not there.
Now that is totally missing.
And if let's try to fill it out one more time.
Add a couple pizzas.
Go ahead and submit it.
Boom.
That email has been sent.
So that is a honeypot.
Hopefully enjoy that one.
And catch you in the next one.